DOCSP-34813 Data Verification (#241)
mongodb/docs-cluster-to-cluster-sync: source/reference/verification/hash.txt

.. _c2c-verify-hash-comp:

===========================
Verify with Hash Comparison
===========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

You can verify sync by comparing MD5 hashes of collections synced from the
source cluster to the destination cluster. While hash comparison ensures
that the destination cluster has received all changes from the source, the
:dbcommand:`dbHash` command locks the cluster, preventing additional writes

> until it completes.  This process can also be much slower than verifying sync 
> with :ref:`document counts <c2c-verify-doc-counts>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
until it completes.  This process can also be much slower than verification 
using :ref:`document counts <c2c-verify-doc-counts>`.
```

.. _c2c-verify-hash-comp:

===========================
Verify with Hash Comparison
===========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

You can verify sync by comparing MD5 hashes of collections synced from the
source cluster to the destination cluster. While hash comparison ensures
that the destination cluster has received all changes from the source, the
:dbcommand:`dbHash` command locks the cluster, preventing additional writes
until it completes.

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: Maybe take this blurb out of the admonition and put it in an About this Task section?

Author: Fixed

   Hash comparison is not possible with sharded clusters. It also does not
   work for standalone servers and replica sets that use MongoDB 4.4 or earlier
   releases, since the document field order can vary.

> If you need to sync a sharded cluster or an older release of MongoDB, or

Reviewer 2: This paragraph also feels like it might work nicely in an About this Task section following the copy from the admonition.

Author: Fixed

.. _c2c-verify-hash-comp:

===========================
Verify with Hash Comparison
===========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

> You can verify sync by comparing MD5 hashes of collections synced from the

Reviewer: I think we should note that this will be slower than document counts.

Author: Fixed

source cluster to the destination cluster. While hash comparison ensures
that the destination cluster has received all changes from the source, the
:dbcommand:`dbHash` command locks the cluster, preventing additional writes
until it completes.

> About This Task

Reviewer: I'm not sure this headline makes sense. Maybe it could be called Details?

Author: The h2 headings follow our information typing for Task pages, (v. [Style Guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/information-types/prototypes/task/)).

---------------

Hash comparison is not possible with sharded clusters. It also does not
work for standalone servers and replica sets that use MongoDB 4.4 or earlier
releases, since the document field order can vary.

If you need to sync a sharded cluster or an older release of MongoDB, or
if the locks are unacceptable for your application workload, use a different
:ref:`verification method <c2c-verify-method>`.

Steps
-----

.. procedure::

>    .. step:: Retrieve the Source Hash

Reviewer: Step 1 and 2 should be run concurrently to not waste time one commit is finished.
